[Web5](https://github.com/TBD54566975/web5-js) is an interesting project maintained by a branch of Square called TBD. It gives a good opportunity to talk about some concepts in the crypto world. To keep this brief I'll just talk about three, blockchain, decentralization, and crypto. To some these three are intertwined, but in reality they're separate elements of which cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and ethereum combine into one. Different combinations of these three provide different possibilities.

First let's talk about blockchain. [Invented by the Yap Islanders](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2011/02/15/131934618/the-island-of-stone-money) hundreds of years before being replicated by tech bros on computers, a blockchain is a way of getting a distributed group of people or machines to agree on the ordering of events. It's useful in the case of money since you need to stop people from spending the same money twice. Whether it's useful in any other context is [tbd](https://www.web3isgoinggreat.com).

Second there's decentralization. In [Darpa's initial paper on the internet protocol](http://nms.lcs.mit.edu/6829-papers/darpa-internet.pdf) the military was concerned with keeping the network going should part of it get obliterated by a nuke. For this reason it was important to make sure the network had no central point of failure. That infrastructure is largely still there, but like anything where money's involved, over time it aggregates to more and more centralization. There are efforts to bring more decentralization to parts of the internet like the [Fediverse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fediverse), and [Web5](https://github.com/TBD54566975/web5-js). I really like these efforts, but I feel like the world full of businesses and creators and developers shouldn't have to remake what they've already built in order to benefit.

Third there's crypto, an overloaded term used to describe both the "currencies" people "invest" in, and the cryptography that enabled them in the first place. Since we're here, might as well talk about them both. Currencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum are, like it or not, occupying an interesting place in the cultural zeitgeist, but they have not, as of yet, [crossed the chasm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crossing_the_Chasm). There are a number of reasons for this, but one very simple one: _everything_ that gets you started with cryptocurrencies costs money. The internet isn't about paying for things, it's about getting stuff for free, and then occasionally maybe buying something you can use _off of the internet_. 
 
Finally there's cryptography, and it's here that I'm excited. When I was researching the above back in 2015/2016, I read Satoshi's original Bitcoin paper. Here's how it starts:

> Abstract. A purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would allow online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a financial institution. Digital signatures provide part of the solution...

"Digital signatures," it's almost a throwaway phrase at the start as they're barely mentioned in the rest of the paper, and no details of implementation are given. Bitcoin solved a problem called the [Byzantine General's Problem](https://lamport.azurewebsites.net/pubs/byz.pdf). It's a thought experiment where the Byzantine army is planning an attack and needs to send messages between commanders, but the messages can be intercepted and as such can't be trusted. To solve that it turns out you need two things: a blockchain, and digital signatures. But what if the messages can be trusted for the most part? In other words, what if your system worked like literally every client/server system that isn't a blockchain? Could you still use digital signatures? What would happen if you did?

These questions bore Sessionless. By replacing sessions as a shared secret with cryptographically verifiable message passing, you provide better security, and gain the ability to do some interesting distributed kind of stuff. Those years back I was talking with a cryptography expert I knew about why no such system existed, and his response was that there wasn't sufficient agreement across platforms on what cryptography to use. There are a lot of options, and not a lot of experts out there to choose them. I built implementations in JavaScript and Swift for my own use, and used it for years waiting for someone to make the broader libraries. Bitcoin and Ethereum's usage of the Secp256k1 elliptical curve has made implementations of that curve pop up across languages. All that was left was to pull them out of the blockchains and put them into a non-blockchain implementation. And so here we are.

